HowToUse.md, before:

## Basic usage:
```csharp
string connectionString = "User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;";

string tableName = "logs";

IDictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase> columnWriters = new Dictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase>
{
    { "message", new RenderedMessageColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "message_template", new MessageTemplateColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "level", new LevelColumnWriter(true, NpgsqlDbType.Varchar) },
    { "raise_date", new TimestampColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz) },
    { "exception", new ExceptionColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "properties", new LogEventSerializedColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "props_test", new PropertiesColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "machine_name", new SinglePropertyColumnWriter("MachineName", PropertyWriteMethod.ToString, NpgsqlDbType.Text, "l") }
};

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
	.WriteTo.PostgreSQL(connectionString, tableName, columnWriters)
	.CreateLogger();
```

The project can be found on [nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HaemmerElectronics.SeppPenner.SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL/).

## Configuration options:

|Parameter|Meaning|Example|Default value|
|-|-|-|-|
|connectionString|The connection string to connect to the PostgreSQL database.|`"User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;"`|None, is mandatory.|
|tableName|The table name to write the data to. Is case-sensitive!|`"logs"`|None, is mandatory.|
|period|The time to wait between checking for event batches.|`period: new TimeSpan(0, 0, 20)`|`00:00:05`|
|formatProvider|The `IFormatProvider` to use. Supplies culture-specific formatting information. Check https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.iformatprovider?view=netframework-4.8.|`new CultureInfo("de-DE")`|`null`|
|columnOptions|The column options to use.|See the examples under the [Full example](https://github.com/SeppPenner/SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL#full-example) section below.|`null`|
|batchSizeLimit|The maximum number of events to include in a single batch.|`batchSizeLimit: 40`|`30`|
|queueLimit|Maximum number of events in the queue.|`queueLimit: 3000`|`int.MaxValue` or `2147483647`|
|useCopy|Enables the copy command to allow batch inserting instead of multiple `INSERT` commands.|`useCopy: true`|`true`|
|schemaName|The schema in which the table should be created.|`schemaName: "Logs"`|`string.Empty` which defaults to the PostgreSQL `public` schema.|
|needAutoCreateTable|Specifies whether the table should be auto-created if it does not already exist or not.|`needAutoCreateTable: true`|`false`|
|needAutoCreateSchema|Specifies whether the schema should be auto-created if it does not already exist or not.|`needAutoCreateSchema: true`|`false`|
|failureCallback|Adds an option to add a failure callback action.|`failureCallback: e => Console.WriteLine($"Sink error: {e.Message}")`|`null`|

## Configuration via JSON file:

The configuration via a JSON file allows the following `loggerColumnOptions`:

* Level: Stores the log level as `Integer`.
* LevelAsText: Stores the log level as `Text`.
* Timestamp: Stores the timestamp as `TimestampTz`.
* LogEvent: Stores the log event as `Jsonb`.
* Properties: Stores the properties as `Jsonb`.
* Message: Stores the message template as `Text`.
* RenderedMessage: Stores the rendered message as `Text`.
* Exception: Stores the exception as `Text`.
* IdAutoIncrement: Stores the identifier as `Bigint` with auto increment.

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "LevelSwitches": {
      "$controlSwitch": "Verbose"
    },
    "MinimumLevel": {
      "ControlledBy": "$controlSwitch"
    },
    "WriteTo": [
      {
        "Name": "PostgreSql",
        "Args": {
          "connectionString": "User ID=postgres;Password=postgres;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;",
          "tableName": "TestLogs",
          "schemaName": null,
          "needAutoCreateTable": true,
          "loggerColumnOptions": {
            "Id": "IdAutoIncrement",
            "TimeStamp": "Timestamp",
            "LogEvent": "Properties"
          },
          "loggerPropertyColumnOptions": {
            "TestColumnName": {
              "Name": "TestProperty",
              "Format": "{0}",
              "WriteMethod": "Raw",
              "DbType": "Text"
            }
          },
          "simpleColumnOptions": {},
          "period": "0.00:00:30",
          "batchSizeLimit": 50
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example for usage via JSON file:

```csharp
var configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .AddJsonFile(".\\YourJsonConfiguration.json", false, true)
    .Build();

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
    .ReadFrom.Configuration(configuration)
    .CreateLogger();

logger.Information(
    "{@LogEvent} {TestProperty}",
    objectToLog,
    "TestValue");
```

## Full example:

```csharp
string connectionString = "User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;";

string tableName = "logs";

IDictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase> columnOptions = new Dictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase>
{
    { "message", new RenderedMessageColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "message_template", new MessageTemplateColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "level", new LevelColumnWriter(true, NpgsqlDbType.Varchar) },
    { "raise_date", new TimestampColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz) },
    { "exception", new ExceptionColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "properties", new LogEventSerializedColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "props_test", new PropertiesColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "machine_name", new SinglePropertyColumnWriter("MachineName", PropertyWriteMethod.ToString, NpgsqlDbType.Text, "l") }
};

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
	.WriteTo.PostgreSQL(connectionString, tableName, columnOptions, needAutoCreateTable: true, schemaName: "LoggingSchema", useCopy: true, queueLimit: 3000, batchSizeLimit: 40, period: new TimeSpan(0, 0, 10), formatProvider: null)
	.CreateLogger();
```

## Using the sink with NodaTime in .Net Core 2.2+:
For the use with [NodaTime](https://nodatime.org/) in .Net Core 2.2, you need to add a new column writer class for the `DateTimeOffset` values.
Check the issue https://github.com/SeppPenner/SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL/issues/10, too.

```csharp
public class OffsetDateTimeColumnWriterBase : ColumnWriterBase
{
    public OffsetDateTimeColumnWriterBase(NpgsqlDbType dbType = NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz): base(dbType)
    {
        this.DbType = NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz;
    }

    public override object GetValue(LogEvent logEvent, IFormatProvider formatProvider = null)
    {
        return OffsetDateTime.FromDateTimeOffset(logEvent.Timestamp);
    }
}
```

## Adjusting column sizes:

You can change column sizes by setting the values in the `SqlTypeHelper` class:
```csharp
// Sets size of all BIT and BIT VARYING columns to 20
TableCreator.DefaultBitColumnsLength = 20;

// Sets size of all CHAR columns to 30
TableCreator.DefaultCharColumnsLength = 30;

// Sets size of all VARCHAR columns to 50
TableCreator.DefaultVarcharColumnsLength = 50;
```

## Upper or lower case table or column names:
Table or column names are always case-sensitive!

Commit message:

Added support for named connection strings from Microsoft.Extensions.

HowToUse.md, after:

## Basic usage:
```csharp
string connectionString = "User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;";

string tableName = "logs";

IDictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase> columnWriters = new Dictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase>
{
    { "message", new RenderedMessageColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "message_template", new MessageTemplateColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "level", new LevelColumnWriter(true, NpgsqlDbType.Varchar) },
    { "raise_date", new TimestampColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz) },
    { "exception", new ExceptionColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "properties", new LogEventSerializedColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "props_test", new PropertiesColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "machine_name", new SinglePropertyColumnWriter("MachineName", PropertyWriteMethod.ToString, NpgsqlDbType.Text, "l") }
};

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
	.WriteTo.PostgreSQL(connectionString, tableName, columnWriters)
	.CreateLogger();
```

The project can be found on [nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/HaemmerElectronics.SeppPenner.SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL/).

## Configuration options:

|Parameter|Meaning|Example|Default value|
|-|-|-|-|
|connectionString|The connection string to connect to the PostgreSQL database.|`"User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;"`|None, is mandatory.|
|tableName|The table name to write the data to. Is case-sensitive!|`"logs"`|None, is mandatory.|
|period|The time to wait between checking for event batches.|`period: new TimeSpan(0, 0, 20)`|`00:00:05`|
|formatProvider|The `IFormatProvider` to use. Supplies culture-specific formatting information. Check https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.iformatprovider?view=netframework-4.8.|`new CultureInfo("de-DE")`|`null`|
|columnOptions|The column options to use.|See the examples under the [Full example](https://github.com/SeppPenner/SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL#full-example) section below.|`null`|
|batchSizeLimit|The maximum number of events to include in a single batch.|`batchSizeLimit: 40`|`30`|
|queueLimit|Maximum number of events in the queue.|`queueLimit: 3000`|`int.MaxValue` or `2147483647`|
|useCopy|Enables the copy command to allow batch inserting instead of multiple `INSERT` commands.|`useCopy: true`|`true`|
|schemaName|The schema in which the table should be created.|`schemaName: "Logs"`|`string.Empty` which defaults to the PostgreSQL `public` schema.|
|needAutoCreateTable|Specifies whether the table should be auto-created if it does not already exist or not.|`needAutoCreateTable: true`|`false`|
|needAutoCreateSchema|Specifies whether the schema should be auto-created if it does not already exist or not.|`needAutoCreateSchema: true`|`false`|
|failureCallback|Adds an option to add a failure callback action.|`failureCallback: e => Console.WriteLine($"Sink error: {e.Message}")`|`null`|
|appConfiguration|The app configuration section. Required if the connection string is a name.|-|`null`|

## Configuration via JSON file:

The configuration via a JSON file allows the following `loggerColumnOptions`:

* Level: Stores the log level as `Integer`.
* LevelAsText: Stores the log level as `Text`.
* Timestamp: Stores the timestamp as `TimestampTz`.
* LogEvent: Stores the log event as `Jsonb`.
* Properties: Stores the properties as `Jsonb`.
* Message: Stores the message template as `Text`.
* RenderedMessage: Stores the rendered message as `Text`.
* Exception: Stores the exception as `Text`.
* IdAutoIncrement: Stores the identifier as `Bigint` with auto increment.

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "LevelSwitches": {
      "$controlSwitch": "Verbose"
    },
    "MinimumLevel": {
      "ControlledBy": "$controlSwitch"
    },
    "WriteTo": [
      {
        "Name": "PostgreSql",
        "Args": {
          "connectionString": "User ID=postgres;Password=postgres;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;",
          "tableName": "TestLogs",
          "schemaName": null,
          "needAutoCreateTable": true,
          "loggerColumnOptions": {
            "Id": "IdAutoIncrement",
            "TimeStamp": "Timestamp",
            "LogEvent": "Properties"
          },
          "loggerPropertyColumnOptions": {
            "TestColumnName": {
              "Name": "TestProperty",
              "Format": "{0}",
              "WriteMethod": "Raw",
              "DbType": "Text"
            }
          },
          "simpleColumnOptions": {},
          "period": "0.00:00:30",
          "batchSizeLimit": 50
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example for usage via JSON file:

```csharp
var configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .AddJsonFile(".\\YourJsonConfiguration.json", false, true)
    .Build();

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
    .ReadFrom.Configuration(configuration)
    .CreateLogger();

logger.Information(
    "{@LogEvent} {TestProperty}",
    objectToLog,
    "TestValue");
```

## Full example:

```csharp
string connectionString = "User ID=serilog;Password=serilog;Host=localhost;Port=5432;Database=Serilog;";

string tableName = "logs";

IDictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase> columnOptions = new Dictionary<string, ColumnWriterBase>
{
    { "message", new RenderedMessageColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "message_template", new MessageTemplateColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "level", new LevelColumnWriter(true, NpgsqlDbType.Varchar) },
    { "raise_date", new TimestampColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz) },
    { "exception", new ExceptionColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Text) },
    { "properties", new LogEventSerializedColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "props_test", new PropertiesColumnWriter(NpgsqlDbType.Jsonb) },
    { "machine_name", new SinglePropertyColumnWriter("MachineName", PropertyWriteMethod.ToString, NpgsqlDbType.Text, "l") }
};

var logger = new LoggerConfiguration()
	.WriteTo.PostgreSQL(connectionString, tableName, columnOptions, needAutoCreateTable: true, schemaName: "LoggingSchema", useCopy: true, queueLimit: 3000, batchSizeLimit: 40, period: new TimeSpan(0, 0, 10), formatProvider: null)
	.CreateLogger();
```

## Using the sink with NodaTime in .Net Core 2.2+:
For the use with [NodaTime](https://nodatime.org/) in .Net Core 2.2, you need to add a new column writer class for the `DateTimeOffset` values.
Check the issue https://github.com/SeppPenner/SerilogSinkForPostgreSQL/issues/10, too.

```csharp
public class OffsetDateTimeColumnWriterBase : ColumnWriterBase
{
    public OffsetDateTimeColumnWriterBase(NpgsqlDbType dbType = NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz): base(dbType)
    {
        this.DbType = NpgsqlDbType.TimestampTz;
    }

    public override object GetValue(LogEvent logEvent, IFormatProvider formatProvider = null)
    {
        return OffsetDateTime.FromDateTimeOffset(logEvent.Timestamp);
    }
}
```

## Adjusting column sizes:

You can change column sizes by setting the values in the `SqlTypeHelper` class:
```csharp
// Sets size of all BIT and BIT VARYING columns to 20
TableCreator.DefaultBitColumnsLength = 20;

// Sets size of all CHAR columns to 30
TableCreator.DefaultCharColumnsLength = 30;

// Sets size of all VARCHAR columns to 50
TableCreator.DefaultVarcharColumnsLength = 50;
```

## Upper or lower case table or column names:
Table or column names are always case-sensitive!
